This is my bot. I am transitioning to using this account once I am finished the current operations and github actions to make things clear about what is going on and making things more clear and auditable.

See the git repo https://github.com/Emma-Leonhart/shintowiki-scripts

The bot will periodically update its own userpage as a part of the Github actions loop. This is the initial page for the bot that exists to explain what it is. 

The git repo contains most if not all scripts used in the history of the wiki. Most if not all scripts were done by python command line.

The bot will also edit the main page to announce its tasks periodically.

The intention of it is that the bot will focus on making this wiki a lot more human readable and editable. As per documentation in the repo, the wiki was made very difficult to read and edit as a human because of conflicting design goals. 

This last push of editing exists to clean up wiki content before we can simplify it for human users.

== Immediate / in progress ==

*  '''Crud category cleanup''' — <code>remove_crud_categories.py</code> running (2026-02-25); stripping <nowiki>[[Category:X]]</nowiki> tags from all member pages across 112 subcategories of Category:Crud_categories. No state file; safe to re-run (skips already-empty categories automatically).
*  '''Delete <code>Category:Jawiki_resolution_pages</code>'''— complete (2026-02-26). 10,239 pages deleted by <code>delete_jawiki_resolution_pages.py</code>.
*  '''Category page wikitext normalization''' — complete (2026-02-26). 23,571 of 24,045 category pages edited by <code>normalize_category_pages.py</code>. State file preserved for safe re-runs.
*  '''Talk page migration''' — <code>migrate_talk_pages.py --apply</code> running (2026-02-25); rebuilds every talk page into a clean structure and imports discussion seeds from ja/en/simple Wikipedia via QID sitelinks. State file: <code>shinto_miraheze/migrate_talk_pages.state</code> (201+ pages done). Log: <code>shinto_miraheze/migrate_talk_pages.log</code>.
*  '''History merges''' — 184 pairs merged (2026-02-23). Combined revision histories of old-name and new-name pages for all matched <code><nowiki>{{moved to}}</nowiki></code>/<code><nowiki>{{moved from}}</nowiki></code> pairs. 7 edge cases left unresolved; tagged in <code>Category:move templates that do not link to each other</code> for manual review. History fully preserved except for those marginal pages.
*  '''Re-run <code>resolve_duplicated_qid_categories.py</code>''' — complete (2026-02-23). Only 3 pages remained; all were duplicate Latin-name pairs tagged as erroneous. The ~75 expected remainder had already been resolved by intervening script passes.
*  '''<code><nowiki>[[sn:...]]</nowiki></code> interwiki removal''' — complete (1 page, 3 links).
*  '''Wanted categories created''' — 153 pages created.
*  '''<code>Category:Generated_x-no-miya_lists</code>deleted''' — 67 User namespace pages deleted.
*  '''Template:Talk page header''' Edit this template so that it fits all of our requirements for our new migrated/transformed talk pages.

== Tasks ==

See [[User:EmmaBot]] for current tasks being done cleaning up this wiki

=== Current tasks ===

* Four current tasks
** normalize talk pages
** normalize category pages
** delete jawiki resolution pages (wikidata links cover this)
** remove crud categories

=== Future tasks ===
* Normalization of template categories
* fix [[:Category:Erroneous qid category links]]
