# wikibot
 
This is a comprehensive wikibot thing that edits wikis, mainly https://shinto.miraheze.org but it has done a lot of them. I am trying to fix it up and turn this into a pipeline as per the vision at vision.txt 

I am gonna ask claude to radically reshape this after the last few scripts finish on the shintowiki, so claude please read this and then read the vision and figure out how to clear this out

Most scripts are currently ones that are outdated and not useful. Were originally created by chatGPT when context preservation was more difficult than with claude and OpenClaw

I intend this to work with the server on https://pramana.dev

Also gotta remove all passwords and such and switch them to secrets for this to be at all public. So claude please do this too


This was written with the intention of claude reading it and acting on the things

The goal right now as established in the chatGPT conversation is that I want to divide up the shintowiki into more dedicated namespaces with the talk pages working this way

TALK PAGES:

For talk pages we will import both Japanese wikipedia conversations and English wikipedia conversations, maybe even all languages, and add a dummy comment to make it so that they do not immediately archive, and have our archiving/namespace explaining template thing at the top, all archive relatively firmly 

Current talk page content should just be completely overwritten since a lot of them have pretty much random arbitrary content

CATEGORY PAGES:

Category pages often have weird spaghetti code generated by countless automated things. I think it is best to completely overwrite the categories except for their categorization, and do a lot of metadata stuff from them. They are currently not really human readable


Category run postmortem:

At a certain point the adding of wikidata links for categories had a rece condition that broke it. The redirect creator caught up with the wikidata adder in the category space. Not sure where it was. It is likely better to make a new script from scratch to finish up these things. Not sure what to do with this, but my inclination is that this is not the most major issue. 
